the Emperor of all maladies is a book
about the history of cancer it's also a
book about the future of cancer and I
started writing this book in 2005 when I
was a cancer doctor in training in
Boston and the book was really inspired
by a single episode and that was when a
woman I was treating for a kind of
stomach cancer and she asked me where
are we going and her question was a
small question about her prognosis but
in some ways when I really thought about
her question I realized I couldn't
answer her question personally and not
only that I couldn't point her to a book
or a magazine or a website that would
answer that question in the most longest
you know most complex sense which is
where are we going in the war on cancer
how did we get here what happens next
when I started writing this book I
thought about cancer as a disease but as
I wrote more and more about it it seemed
as if it was not just a disease but
something that envelops our life so
fully that it was like writing about
someone it was like writing about an
alter personality an illness that had a
psyche of behavior a pattern of existing
and so it felt as if I was not writing
about something but about someone and
therefore it became a biography much
like you write a biography of another
person and you'd like to find out their
life their death their future their past
so we'll meet two characters in this
book who sort of thread the entire book
together
the first is Sidney Farber Farber was a
pathologist at Children's Hospital he
was called a doctor of the dead because
he examined children's bodies after they
had died and he looked at their tissues
and performed autopsies and he thought
he would emerge up into the main part of
the hospital to try to see the children
that he was trying to diagnose and in
this process he stumbled upon a vitamin
or a vitamin analogue which became one
of the first chemotherapeutic drugs and
in the mid 1940s Farber found himself an
incredible collaborator and her name was
Mary Lasker Mary Lasker was a socialite
a legendary aunt
and she became politically involved in
launching the war on cancer and see
essentially convinced Richard Nixon to
force the nation to launch an enormous
war on cancer and to some extent science
is still trying to get it right but we
know so much more about cancer today
than we knew a thousand years ago or
even ten years ago
if there's one seminal discovery in the
history of cancer it is the fact that
cancer is not caused by exogenous events
but in some ways if cancer is caused by
the dysregulation of endogenous genes
the genes that already in every cell in
our body
I want readers to realize that this is a
long historic battle an iconic battle in
a battle against something very deep and
elemental that will continue for many
many years to come
human ingenuity and scientific
discipline have a long past and a long
future and it's only by engaging every
single force that we have with us that
we'll ever cure cancer or find a way to
control it
you